In the Lizofication video, I spoke about how I tend not to keep up with celebrities.
Well, you know what?
I don't really keep up with internet celebrities either.
Like, look at this.
Here's the banner for the Streamy Awards this year.
I don't know any of these guys.
Looking at this caption, I recognize MatPat, he's the Game Theory guy.
Dylan Mulvaney, since I did a previous video on the whole Bud Light thing.
I only know Rhett and Link because Dave soys out over them regularly.
I'm surprised Smosh is still around, and I know xQc due to my recent appearances on
eFAP and my coverage of the Twitch React meta, though to be honest, I've known about him
for longer than that.
But like, who the fuck are these people?
IconaPop?
BriannaChickenFry?
That's the name you chose?
I always feel strange when a list like this pops up.
Like the internet's kind of left me behind.
The former greats I used to look up to are mostly not so great anymore, both in terms
of them cucking out and disavowing all of their old content due to trolls remorse, and
in terms of them just being way less popular than when I was young.
The next generation has their own set of internet idols, and the old greats are just
kind of coasting by on their established fame, not really doing much anymore.
However, more and more have actually come to cherish not being in touch with things.
Not being on the bleeding edge, you know what I mean?
It's like the internet version of leaving behind the big city in the rat race, and retiring
to a midwestern estate to enjoy the slower pace.
In fact, I say, normalize not being plugged into the latest trends and events.
Haha, I managed to fit all five of YouTube's allowed other video advertisement cards into
the first two minutes.
Therefore, it should come as no surprise that before I started researching this video, I
had no idea of the Little Tay deep lore.
A couple of weeks ago, this was posted on Little Tay's Instagram, and subsequently
went viral.
It is with a heavy heart that we share the devastating news of our beloved Claire's
sudden and tragic passing.
We have no words to express the unbearable loss and indescribable pain.
This outcome was entirely unexpected, and has left us all in shock.
Her brother's passing adds an even more unimaginable depth to our grief.
During this time of immense sorrow, we kindly ask for privacy as we grieve the overwhelming
loss, as the circumstances surrounding Claire and her brother's passing are still under
investigation.
Claire will forever remain in our hearts, her absence leaving an irreplaceable void
that will be felt by all who knew and loved her.
Now, I had no idea what was going on, but I did remember the name, Little Tay, from
PewDiePie's YouTube Rewind of 2018.
Here was her tiny bit in that montage.
Y'all can't afford things like Little Tay.
I wears a belt.
Yeah, that's right.
In 2018, Little Tay was nine years old, and she was going viral for recording vlogs speaking
like a ghetto black rapper, waving money around, sitting in nice cars, showing off jewelry,
insulting the viewer, and even using slurs.
Big name YouTube channels back then were reacting to her taking off, most of them quite negatively,
remarking that she's only nine years old and why is she acting like this?
Where are her parents?
This is clearly going to fuck her up when she gets older.
And then she fell off my radar because I don't follow influencer news until that report of
her death from a couple weeks ago.
She'd be 14 or 15 at this point, and she apparently died under suspicious circumstances
along with her brother.
The place where my mind went first was to that stereotype of an overbearing parent of
a child star, where they push their kid to perform way beyond the line of abuse, and
then accidentally or maybe even intentionally end up killing them.
That was my initial reaction, anyway.
The outcry on the internet took two forms.
The first was like this person's.
Her name isn't Little Tay.
It was Claire Hope.
She was a little girl exploited and potentially abused by her family for fame, wealth, and
influence.
It's a shame that the vapid influencer persona will be her legacy when her life barely began.
Genuinely, rest in peace, Claire.
There's lots of sentiments like this, expressing sorrow over her death and laying the blame
at the feet of her parents for pushing her too far to be a young influencer.
Basically, this is my knee-jerk assumption.
The second form was this person's.
See, when you culturally appropriate black culture, you end up with worms and dirt.
What this person's referring to is the way Little Tay acted and spoke in those viral
2018 videos, using slurs and putting on an act of being ghetto.
Apparently, that justifies her death in the minds of these retards.
In fact, one specific poster who said this is a black Hollywood TV writer and comedian
who mentioned that she didn't care about Little Tay's possible death because she
dropped slurs at nine years old.
Like holy shit, dude.
I can't believe you're out here posting with your real name and your real face in
your whole LA career and your bio, talking about how you don't care about the possibility
a kid died because she dropped gamer words in her youthful ignorance.
This person has actual fucking brain rot.
In any case, the majority of posts about this event have since been deleted, including those
two main examples that I used.
That's why they look kind of weird.
I had to pull them off the internet archive.
Why were they deleted?
Because in the past couple of weeks, as more information came out, it turns out that this
whole thing is fake.
Never complain about me being late to the party ever again, guys.
The full story is never out on day one.
Actually, a lot of stuff still seems to be kind of unknown, but here's all the information
that I've gathered.
Despite it being commonly reported during the death hoax that Little Tay's real name
is Claire Hope, she actually told TMZ recently that her real name is Tay Tian.
Although a lot of her 2018 content revolved around her apparently growing up on the mean
streets of Atlanta, she actually grew up in Vancouver, Canada, with her half-brother Jason
Tian and her mother Angela Tian.
Her mother was a realtor, and a lot of the luxurious property Little Tay recorded her
videos and rap songs in were actually houses her mother was selling.
The most blatant example of her mother using her job for her daughter's online career
was when she borrowed her boss's sports car and shot a video with Little Tay sitting in
the front seat waving cash around.
In fact, it was this continuous use of Angela's client's property and her boss's property
that eventually led to her losing her job.
The Tian family seems to have moved to LA during the peak of Little Tay's virality.
She was influenced to the LA influencer scene, making connections with other content creators
and continuing to go viral with them, even flirting with the idea of signing with a talent
agency at some point.
Her father, back in Canada, Christopher Hope, was a Vancouver-based lawyer, and though he
was no longer in a relationship with Angela Tian, he did share custody of Tay.
Once he caught wind that his daughter was out of the country, he began legal proceedings
to bring her back to Canada, a process that took several months.
The date that Little Tay fell off of the collective internet's radar roughly lines up with the
date that Angela was forced to return her to Canada.
Her father's idea was to make his daughter's career more official, open a trust for her
income, open a business, trademark her brand, obtain a visa so that Tay could legally be
in the USA, and set up alternative schooling plans for a young person who was also working
in the media, none of which Angela had done.
She simply moved the family to America under the guise of going on a vacation and then
just began living there undercover.
So far, this story sounds like a classic case of the mother seeing her daughter's star
potential and going way too crazy with it, but it came out a few months after she initially
went viral that her half-brother also had a lot to do with what was going on.
While some people blamed Angela for allowing Tay to behave as she did, others began to
discover that it was actually her half-brother, Jason, who had control of the Little Tay social
media accounts, and it was him coaching her on what to say.
A leaked video posted by Keemstar on Twitter back in 2018 seems to confirm this.
Also, The Atlantic wrote in their article exposing Little Tay at the time, this testimonial.
I've seen Little Tay cry, said one person who had worked closely with Little Tay in
the past, but asked not to be identified by name for fear of jeopardizing their business
I've seen her brother shout at her.
Once Jason was yelling at her, saying, you're no good, it's no good, she was crying hard.
Anonymous sources aren't the best, but if this is true, that's pretty bad.
Wait a minute though, this old article was written by Taylor Lorenz.
Oh no, I can't do six YouTube cards and link back to my Taylor Lorenz video, fuck.
The fight between Tay's parents ended up ruining her career.
Angela wanted Tay to continue to make boisterous, outlandish content in an attempt to keep going
viral, while Christopher wanted Tay to move more into a traditional music career path
and pursue the rapper side of her shtick.
In June of 2018, several months after she first went viral, her online presence was
wiped clean in an attempted rebrand.
By October of 2018, her official accounts began posting stories of abuse by Tay's father.
Tay's mother denied that her brother posted these stories, and claimed that the account
was hacked and that she had contacted the police about it already.
By 2019, her brother had consolidated all control over Tay's social media, and by
2021, those same social media accounts began to claim abuse by Tay's father again, this
time dropping GoFundMe links.
Tay herself claimed this was a second hack, while Tay's agent, appointed by her father,
claimed that her mother and brother were trying to slander her father with abuse allegations
in order to bring Tay back under their thumb.
Shortly before the apparent death of little Tay and her brother, her YouTube bio was updated
to simply read, help me, and the same words were posted as an image on her Instagram account,
both of which had been inactive for nearly five years.
Then came that post about their death.
Here's what makes this story really fucking weird.
Variety asked little Tay's new management for a statement, and that management actually
confirmed her death.
Christopher, the father, was asked about it, and he didn't give a statement one way or
another.
Reporters asked both the Vancouver and LA police departments, neither of which had heard
anything.
TMZ finally managed to contact Tay directly, who confirmed that she and her brother were
alive and well, that her account had been hacked for a third time, and also to finally
confirm that her real name was not Claire Hope, but Tay Tian.
I'm going to give you my tinfoil hat theory as to what's going on here.
Obviously, the whole series of events is a fucking trash fire.
Mother and half-brother are fighting with the father over the direction of the daughter's
career.
And who knows if the daughter's interests or desires are being taken into account?
Probably not.
You've got multiple supposed hacking attempts, clear differences in how their daughter's
career should be managed.
It's just a whole mess.
The manager that Christopher hired, Harry Sang, seems to have some legal control over
Tay, and they move to make her career more official.
However, the mother has a different idea, and the half-brother controls all the accounts.
In response, the first two hackings happen, first in 2018 and second in 2021, alleging
abuse from the father.
To me, this seems like the mother and brother on one side trying to regain control over
Tay, since the brother owns the social media accounts, and Tay and her father on the other
side, with Tay's father appointing a manager, and the manager opposing the mother and brother.
However, by 2023, Harry Sang is no longer her manager.
He actually cut ties with the whole family two years earlier, and it's his belief that
the death hoax was simply a publicity stunt.
It's this fact, combined with the father simply going no comment, that makes it seem
to me like Tay's mother and brother ultimately won the battle against him, over who's going
to control Tay in her career.
Except at this point, Tay has no fucking career.
She was a flash in the pan five years ago, and the family bickering destroyed any shot
they had of positioning that properly, and springboarding into something more.
The more I researched the story, the more I was reminded of child actors who have their
lives fucking destroyed by their overzealous parents, child musicians or child performers,
or child reality TV stars.
What kind of life do you think those John and Kate plus eight kids are leading?
What about the Duggar kids?
One of them already got caught molesting his sisters and possessing child porn.
How many YouTube family prank channels have been busted for child abuse over the years,
where the kids were forced into it by their parents in order to go viral?
What can be done about this stuff?
Well, some people think that the way forward is to give child influencers the same legal
protections as child actors and child musicians, restricting how long they can work, legal
requirements to put away earnings into a trust for them to inherit when they turn 18,
basically protections to ensure that parents don't abuse their children.
This is probably a good idea.
Other people have asked how the line can be drawn between an underage viral influencer
whose accounts rake in the money versus somebody who posts a video of their kids onto YouTube
for their families, and they end up making like 50 cents in ad revenue or something.
However, I think we can handle those distinctions pretty well.
After all, child actor laws don't apply to the kid who acts in the school play, even
if grandma gives them the shiny nickel for their troubles.
Even then, what should be done about people who go viral when they're still underage
but old enough to not be totally retarded?
I'm talking about people who are in high school and manage their channels after school
on the weekend, like Scott the Woz, Kai Sinat, or Sneeko did back in the day.
Or until very recently, iShowSpeed.
When it comes to internet stuff, law tends to trail behind culture, and it seems a little
bit strange for a 15-year-old or a 16-year-old who makes his own YouTube videos and suddenly
goes viral to now have to submit to either his parents or child actor laws.
But maybe that's just how it has to be if we're going to avoid any more Lil Tay situations.
It might take 5 years, it might take 10, who knows.
But at some point, Lil Tay is going to come out as an adult and tell us the story of what
actually went on here.
And I have a suspicion it's probably something horrific.
The moral of the story is, if your kid goes viral online, that's cool.
But man, don't try to control it for them.
Let them do their thing.
Yeah, you can make sure they don't get catfished or get into an unsafe situation or something,
but blowing up on the internet is hard.
It happens to like one in a million, so don't ruin your kid's future for your present.